
4.4
Biological Safety Cabinet (BSC): a ventilated cabinet for compounded sterile 
preparations, personnel, product, and environmental protection having an open front 
with inward airflow for personnel protection, downward high-efficiency particulate 
air (HEPA)-filtered laminar airflow for product protection, and HEPA-filtered 
exhausted air for environmental protection. 
4.5
Clean Room/Buffer Area: An ISO 7 room in which the concentration of airborne 
particles is controlled to meet a specified airborne particulate cleanliness class. 
Microorganisms in the environment are monitored so that a microbial level for air, 
surface, and personnel gear is not exceeded for the specified cleanliness class.
4.6
Clean Room Facility: The controlled area consists of an anteroom, cleanrooms, and 
BSCs.
4.7
Contact Plate/Replicate Organisms Detection and Counting (RODAC): nutrient agar 
plate containing Lecithin and Polysorbate 80 that is used for the detection and 
enumeration of microorganisms present on surfaces. 
4.8
Colony Forming Unit (CFU): a unit used to estimate the number of viable bacteria or 
fungal cells in a sample.
4.9
International Organization for Standardization (ISO): The International Organization 
for Standardization is an international standard-setting body composed of 
representatives from various national standards organizations.
4.10 United States Pharmacopeia National Formulary (USP) – The USP-NF contains the 
pharmacopeia standards for medicines, dosage forms, drug substances, excipients, 
medical devices, and dietary supplements.
4.11 Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) – Controlled Document with a unique 
numerical identifier that provides instructions regarding a particular operational 
procedure.
4.12 Tryptic Soy Agar (TSA): a non-selective culture medium used for the isolation and 
cultivation of microorganisms. 
4.13 Sabouraud Dextrose Media (SDA): selective media primarily used for the isolation 
of fungi, dermatophytes, and yeasts.
4.14 Testing Process/Session: A Testing Session is defined as the complete and continuous 
period during which a sample or group of samples is subjected to a specific testing 
method. This session encompasses all procedures, equipment, personnel activities, 
and environmental conditions directly associated with the execution of that method. 
All preparatory, in-process, and post-process steps that are integral to the testing 
method are considered part of the testing process. For example, in the case of USP 
<71> Sterility Testing, the testing session includes all activities performed within the 
cleanroom, including the use and monitoring of the Biosafety Cabinet (BSC), as these 
are essential components of the sterility testing process.
Effective
MICRO-SOP-2
v16.0
Category: SOP Microbiology
Name: Environmental Monitoring of the Clean Room Facility
Effective
23-JUL-2026
Location
Houston (Corporate)
ETX ID
2.600.002
Printed by qchen@eagleanalytical.com from https://app.zenqms.com on 20-Aug-2026 at 8:32:59 PM UTC
Page 2 of 20


